### Interpreter ðŸ
> Inspired by: [Brainfuck/brainfuck-visualizer-master](https://ashupk.github.io/Brainfuck/brainfuck-visualizer-master/index.html)

There is the smallest interpreter [`interpreters/smallest.js`](interpreters/smallest.js).

And the [`interpreters/complete.js`](interpreters/complete.js) with more features for web use cases.
- Yields the result of each char before interpreting it
- Receives a object with the last result to start from

<br>

```js
const bf = bfinterpreter('++++++++[>++++[>++>+++>+++>+<<<<-]>+>+>->>+[<]<-]>>.>---.+++++++..+++.>>.<-.<.+++.------.--------.>>+.>++.!', { pause: true })

while (!(a = bf.next()).done)
  console.log(a.value)
```

<br>

### Encoder ðŸ”¤
> [`encoders/encoder.js`](encoders/encoder.js)

It translates text to Brainfuck.

<br>

### Encoder v2 â›±ï¸
> [`encoders/encoderv2.js`](encoders/encoderv2.js)  

A really smart encoder that writes code with the same techniques
I myself use when I'm manually writing **Brainf#ck**.

It chooses the smallest result from many techniques to get to the number
on the memory with less code as possible.

Techniques:
- Increment or decrement
- Find the best cell and increment or decrement
- Create a new cell and increment or decrement
- Set cell to zero and increment or decrement
- Loop
	> Uses one technique in the counter code

Limitations:
- No support for loops inside loops
- Doesn't preview next characters

<br>

### GNU Assembly Transpiler ðŸ¦¬
> [`transpilers/gas`](transpilers/gas)

It transpiles Brainfuck to x86 AT&T GNU/Assembly.  
You can write the output to a file, compile, and
then run redirecting the output to `xxd` to show the results

```bash
deno task transpile && \ # send the output of main.js to prog.s
deno task compile && \   # compile prog.s to prog.o
deno task link && \      # link prog.o to prog
deno task run            # run prog
```

> [!WARNING]
> The byte-size this implementation works with is 0-255 (not 0-127 as the others).  
> It was made to keep the code smaller and easier to read.  
> And it means generated code by [#encoderv2](#encoder-v2-) cannot be ran with this.

> [!NOTE]
> TODOS:
> - Let next operators know what's inside registers
>   not to re-set it to the same thing.

<br>

### JIT Compiler ðŸ±
> [`compilers/jit`](compilers/jit)  
> Inspired by: [tsoding/bfjit](https://github.com/tsoding/bfjit)

It compiles **Brainfuck** to a valid ELF64 format entirely in **JavaScript**,
and runs it with a **C** shared library.

These are the steps:
- Transpile **Brainfuck** to **x86_64 AT&T GNU/Assembly**
- Transpile the assembly to bytecode
- Put the bytecode on memory and call as a function

I've already thought about using the same assembly generated by [#as-transpiler](#as-transpiler-) here
but that assembly is x86 and not x86\_64 which is the required as Deno limits the shared library to be
an ELF64, and a x86 bytecode cannot access x86\_64 registers to get the received pointer to the memory (`%rdi`).

> [!NOTE]
> [`compilers/jit/transpiler.js`](compilers/jit/transpiler.js)
> does the same as [#as-transpiler](#as-transpiler-), but for 64-bits

> [!WARNING]
> Just like [#as-transpiler](#as-transpiler-), it works with 0-255 byte-size, so be careful.

<br>

### GNU Cobol Transpiler ðŸ¦–
Soon.
